Here is a list of the discs that are currently available on 3 December 1993:

Simtel MSDOS CDROM.  This disc contains about 660 MB of utilities,
programming tools, source code, technical documentation, etc.  It
includes the entire Simtel20 MSDOS Archive.  There is an index file in
each directory, and a master index file in the top directory that
describes each file.  The current edition of this disc was made in
October 1993.  The next edition will be available in February 1994. 
This disc is available by quarterly subscription.

CICA Microsoft Windows CDROM.  This disc contains 640 MB of Microsoft
Windows programs.  It includes hundreds of utilities, games, fonts,
bitmaps, etc.  All are written especially for Windows.  It includes
the entire CICA Windows collection from Indiana University, both
zipped (340 MB) and unzipped (300 MB).  This disc was produced in
August 1993.  This disc is available by quarterly subscription.

Giga-Games CDROM.  Thousands of the finest sharware/PD games for MSDOS
and Windows from the Giga-Games archive at ftp.cdrom.com:/pub/games.
This disc contains over 3000 files, including arcade games,
educational games for all age groups, adventure games, board games,
card games and strategy games.  You can play many of these games
either against the computer or against another human.  There are
sports games, trivia games and word games.  There are lots of
utilities and "cheat sheets" for commercial and shareware games.
There is an easy to use shell that makes the disc easy to navigate,
and each program has a detailed description.  This disc is set up for
most popular BBS's.

Hobbes OS/2 CDROM.  This disc contains the OS/2 archives from
ftp-os2.cdrom.com.  There are over 3000 programs (650 MB).  Many of
the same programs are also included as uncompressed files ready for
executation right off the CDROM.  The files on this disc were
downloaded in October 1993.  This disc is available by quarterly
subscription.

GIFs Galore CDROM.  Six Thousand GIF images in dozens of catagories,
including art, aviation, birds, cars, cats, flowers, fractals,
military, people, raytrace, sci_fi, swimsuit, technology, trains,
vietnam, and about twenty other categories.  There is no "adult"
material on this disc.  Most images are 640x480 and in full color.
Viewers are provided for MSDOS, Windows, Amiga, Macintosh, OS/2,
SPARC, SGI, X11R5, and several other systems.

Space and Astronomy CDROM.  Thousands of NASA images and data.  The
images include pictures of the earth, the planets, satellites,
rockets, distant galaxies, and nebula.  There are also thousands of
text files, including information on asteroids, astronauts, NASA news
bulletins and press releases since 1962, and the USENET sci.space
archives.  A large collection of astronomy and space related shareware
and PD software is also included.

Project Gutenberg CDROM.  This disc contains the etexts of Project
Gutenberg for 1991, 1992 and Jan-Jul 1993.  The etexts on the disc
include classic literature such as Aesop's Fables, Alice in
Wonderland, Moby Dick, and Paradise Lost; Historical documents such as
the Magna Carta, U.S. Declaration of Independence, U.S. Constitution,
Inagural Addresses and many treaties; references such as Roget's
Thesaurus, almanacs, census data, the CIA World Fact Book, and
mathematical constants; religious documents such as the Bible, and the
Book of Mormon.  This disc is available by semi-annual subscription.

Libris Britannia CDROM.  This disc was made as a joint project with
the Public Domain and Shareware Library of Sussex, England.  It
contains over 600 MB of up to date and very well indexed software.  It
is biased toward the technical and scientific PC user and includes
extensive sections on electronics, engineering, mathematics, medicine,
ham radio, and other specialist areas.  PDSL acts as librarian for the
UK C User's Group, and the programming section includes the UK CUG
volumes.  The disc comes with a 124 page manual that contains capsule
descriptions of about 100-250 words for each item, with information on
version number, registration fee, and hardware required.

Nebula for NeXTStep Intel CDROM.  The largest collection of
applications presently available for NeXTStep Intel in categories such
as utilities, games, general productivity.  Also included are graphics
files in Tiff, PostScript, Gif, and Login Panels format, as well as a
large collection of fonts and sounds.  Programmers will be happy to
note that almost all the applications on the disc comes with complete
source code making the Nebula a valuable reference for NeXTSTEP
programmers. A central index is included which can be used with
Digital Librarian to quickly locate the file you're looking for.
NeXTSTEP 3.1 or above for Intel processors is required to use this
disc.  This disc was made in October, 1993.

QRZ! Ham Radio CDROM.  This disc contains the March 1993 US CALLSIGN
DATABASE (in ASCII), PC (MS-DOS) compatible search and retrieval
software, search by callsign, name, city, zip code, several output
formats including screen, mailing lists, etc.  There are hundreds of
popular ham related (shareware) programs and nearly 200 radio and
scanner modifications.  Also included are USENET news articles from
rec.ham-radio and rec.radio.amateur.{misc,packet,policy} since 1989.
Also provided are complete dumps of several internet ham radio
archives, Canadian and US CLUB callsigns, FCC Rules and Regulations
(Part 97), DX lists, DXCC info, BBS lists, UNIX callsign
database/server 'C' source code, SIMTEL20 Ham Radio Archive files, and
vast amounts of useful reading information for the beginning to the
advanced ham enthusiast.  This disc was made in March 1993.

Aminet Amiga CDROM.  This disc contains the Aminet Amiga Archive, the
AB20 Amiga archive, and comp.sources.amiga and comp.binaries.amiga.
There is a total of 650 megabytes of Amiga software.  This disc was
made in June 1993.  The disc Does work with the CDTV and is available
by subscription.

Info-Mac CDROM.  Over 10000 programs from Stanford University's SUMEX
Archive, including desk accessories, games, virus-detection programs
and commercial demos.  It is also jam-packed with graphics, sounds and
Hypercard stacks.  For the more technically inclined, there are source
code samples and entire program listings as well as technical
documentation and discussions.  The programs on this CDROM are from
Stanford University's Sumex-Aim Info-Mac Archive, one of the most
complete and up-to-date collections of Macintosh software.  This disc
is in HFS Mac format.  It was updated in April 1993.

C Users' Group Library CDROM.  C source code from the C Users' Group.
Most code is for MSDOS, early volumes are CP/M, later UNIX.  Includes
source code for editors, disassemblers, compilers, interpreters,
communications, bbs', games, tutorials, libraries, etc.  Also all
source code listings from the C Users' Journal.  Made in October 1992.

Source Code CDROM.  This disc contains the Usenet source archives, the
Simtel20 Unix-C Archive, and a large collection of MSDOS source code.
There is a total of about 600 MB of source code.  It is mostly C, but
also has some Pascal, Lisp, C++, Modula2, Fortran, Assembly, etc.
This disc was made in December 1993.

X11R5 and GNU CDROM.  This disc contains all the X11R5 Window System
sources, including all the contributed software, all the GNU source
code, and sparc binaries and libraries for the Gnu programs and the
X11R5 server and clients.  The X11R5 sources are at patch level
seventeen.  This disc is in Rock Ridge format, so full unix pathnames
are visible on systems that support the RR extensions.  This CDROM was
made in December 1992.

Nova CDROM.  636 megabytes of NeXT treasures await you on this CD.
The files run the gamut from utilities, fonts, sounds, graphics, text
files to a large collection of NeXTSTEP games.  SoftPC applications
are included.  Each subdirectory contains an index file with the file
name, version, author, and description.  The entire disc is also
indexed for use with Digital Librarian.  The disc is ISO-9660 and also
includes the Rock Ridge extensions so you can see long file names.
January 1993.

Linux Operating System CDROM.  Tired of MSDOS and Windows?  Try
Yggdrasil Linux, a genuine UNIX clone with full source code.  Linux is
based on the 0.99.13 kernel, GCC 2.4.5, Xfree86 1.3 (X11R5) X windows,
and hundreds of other programs.  Sound support for *every* computer,
support for almost *any* cdrom drive, support for almost every video
card.  Linux uses as little as 2 MB of hard disk space or as much as
680 MB.  An easy graphical install program guides your setup.  Andrew
multimedia mail system, MIME multimedia mail, X windows programming
tools, and two emacs versions are just a few of the other ported
software on the disc.  Yes, if it doesn't work on your system, return
it for a full refund.  Experience an advanced, professional unix on
your PC -- order your Linux CDROM today.  This CDROM was made by Adam
Richter of Yggdrasil Computing.

Sprite CDROM.  This disc contains the source code and documentation
for the Sprite Network Operating System.  Sprite was a research
operating system developed at the University of California, Berkeley.
All the reseach papers from the Sprite project are also included on
the disc.  This software on this disc is primarily intended for
research purposes, and is not really intended to be used as a
production system.  Boot images are provided for Sun SparcStations and
DECStations.

Ada CDROM.  560+ MB of documentation, information, and source code.
With more than 5000 files, this disc is an indispensible resource for
any Ada programmer.  Imagine the convienience of refering to the disc
for all the Ada language reference manuals, a complete set of Ada
language issue comments, PC and Mac Ada/ED compilers, benchmarks,
validation suites, courseware, Ada programming tools, and prodigious
amounts of source code.  Made in June 1993.

Garbo MSDOS/MAC CDROM.  This disc contains the Garbo archive from
Vaasa University in Finland.  It contains almost 400 MB of software.
About 250 MB is for MSDOS, and about 150 MB is for Macintoshes.

La Coleccion de Agosto '93.  Este CD cuenta con mus de 6.696 archivos
clasificados en 55 directorios.  La Coleccion contiene aplicaciones,
informacion y mucho mus para DOS, Windows y OS/2, e incluye dos
secciones especiales con material para autoedicion y programas para
calculadoras HP-48SX.  Este CD fue preparado para ser instalado en BBS
sin ningon esfuerzo.

The CICA MS Windows, Simtel MSDOS, Aminet, and Hobbes OS/2 discs are
available by subscription.  We update these discs quarterly.  When we
have a new version we ship them to our subscribers.  We bill your
credit card when we ship.  The standard shipping charge applies.

All of these discs, except the Info-Mac Disc, are in ISO-9660 format,
so they are readable on almost any system.  No special software is
required.

Shipping and handling is $5 (per order, not per disc) for US/Canada,
and $10 for airmail overseas.  If you live in California, please add
sales tax.

You may order via email.  Our email address is
      orders@cdrom.com

You can send a check or money order to

    Walnut Creek CDROM
    1547 Palos Verdes, Suite 260
    Walnut Creek, CA  94596
    USA

Or you can order by MasterCard, Visa or American Express.  If you do
not trust email with your credit card number, you can call

	+1 800 786-9907
	+1 510 674-0783
	+1 510 674-0821 (FAX)

There will be other discs available soon.

* * * CDROM Caddies are available for $4.95 each. * * *

Plastic jewel boxes are 10/$5.

We continue to seek partners in CDROM production.  If you have a good
idea for a disc and want to work with us, give us a call.

This catalog is dated 3 December 1993.  The most current version of
this catalog is available via anonymous ftp from
ftp.cdrom.com:/pub/cdrom/catalog, or you can request it by sending
email to info@cdrom.com.

