Software
Product
Description	HSManager
PRODUCT NAME:	HSManager for OpenVMS	SPD 50.00
	Hierarchical Storage Management


HSManager provides "set and forget" management of space on active and
near-line storage. HSManager keeps active files on primary (fast) storage
and migrates little used files to secondary (slower) storage.

HSManager supports magnetic disks,  compressing disks, ZIP archives, optical
jukeboxes and tape autoloaders in any combination.  Disk and disk like
devices may be either primary or secondary storage, tapes and ZIP archives
may only be secondary storage.

HSManager integrates fully with all Acorn Software Products (Squash,
VirtualBranches and Branches) as well as with a variety of other rule based
storage managers available from 3rd parties.

Using HSManager you make maximal use of your existing storage.  By moving
infrequently used data to lower cost storage you reduce your system
management expense, your system manager is not involved in manual
restructuring of your data, and your capital expense, by not needing to buy
additional, expensive, rotating mass storage.

In addition, HSManager extends the OpenVMS file system to provide "soft
links" in two varieties.  Read/Only soft links allow data to be read, but if
any attempt to write the data, data is moved to the original place before
the writing can occur.  Read/Write soft links allow data to be read or
written wherever HSManager has placed it.  Soft links can span devices and
are provided as a generic facility available independently of the specific
HSManager functionality (although HSManager has to be running in order to
utilize soft links).

Benefits
Transparent migration of little or unused data to lower cost storage.
Fully integrated with compression software, tape data libraries and
magneto-optical data libraries.
Lowered system management costs.
Reduced capital expenses.
Reduced requirements for backup.

Features
Compatible with all OpenVMS applications.
Transparent migration of data from primary to secondary storage and back.
Automatic, scheduled, and manual control in any combination over the managed
data.
Built in space management algorithm based on dates, file sizes, and
available space.
Simple, menu driven, configuration of the storage hierarchy and the space
management.
Available for OpenVMS/VAX 5.5 and OpenVMS/AXP 6.1 and up.
"Soft links" that span devices.
Read/Only soft links.
Read/Write soft links.
User defined storage hierarchy.
Supports a variety of 3rd party rule based storage management utilities.
Optical Jukebox support for DEC, HP, IDE, Kodak, NKK and others.
Tape Autoloader support for Conner, DEC, DLI, Exabyte, Odetics, Spectralogic
and others

Functional Description
Using HSManager data files appear to be on a users disk while, in fact, they
may have been anywhere, in a backup save set on a tape, some other disk,
etc. HSManager transparently (without user intervention) moves data from
active to "inactive" storage in a process called shelving.  When the data is
accessed then that data is restored (as appropriate) to allow the user to
access it in a process called unshelving.

Depending upon the configuration, shelved data is always unshelved upon
access, unshelved upon write access only, or never unshelved, i.e., the data
is accessed on the shelf.

The user is never aware that his data is anywhere but where he expects it to be.
The system manager can specify a simple space management policy, then
implement that space policy manually or automatically.  In addition, the
system manager can manual select files to be managed without a space policy
in place thus allowing complete control over which data are shelved.

Applications
Storage intensive sites which routinely archive or move data in response to
user requests or are faced with ongoing problems due to reconfiguration of
storage due to constraints.

Prerequisites
Any valid OpenVMS system configuration  (version 5.5 or later for VAX,
version 6.1 or later  for AXP) supported by Digital Equipment  Corporation. 

Distribution Media/Documentation
HSManager is available on TK50, 4mm, or over the internet at
http://www.acornsw.com/.  Free trials of HSManager for 45 days are provided
automatically.  After this point, full payment for HSManager must be
received.

Installation
HSManager installs using VMSINSTAL.

Software Requirements
OpenVMS/VAX 5.5 or higher.  OpenVMS/AXP 6.1 or higher.

Software Licensing
Upon installation, a 45 day license to use HSManager is automatically
granted.  Before any additional license is granted, payment in full must be
received by Acorn Software.

Ordering Information
Software license:	HL-*-VMS, HL-*-AXP
Software maintanence:	HM-*-12
* Variant fields.  For additional information on available license, media,
documentation, services, and warranty refer to the HSManager price list.

Sales Contact Information
Acorn Software, Inc.
	267 Cox St.
	Hudson, Ma. 01749 USA
	tel.: (508) 568-1618 x3
	fax: (508) 562-1133
	info@acornsw.com

Distributed Logic SA (DILOG SA)
	Route de Boudry 16, CH-2016
	Cortaillod, Switzerland
	tel.: (41) 38 42 44 54
	fax: (41) 38 43 11 85

