
ACORN SOFTWARE INTRODUCES VIRTUAL BRANCHES=81 FOR WINDOWS NT

Hudson, MA, August 19, 1996 -- Acorn Software, Inc., an innovator in data
storage technologies for DEC/VAX systems, has announced VIRTUAL Branches=81
for Windows NT systems.  Previously developed for the Digital VAX OpenVMS
environment, VIRTUAL Branches is data library management and robotics
control software.

VIRTUAL Branches software allows system administrators to use inexpensive
optical storage to warehouse large amounts of data near-line, without
incurring the high cost of additional hard disk space.  The software is
compatible with a wide range of optical and CD-ROM jukeboxes and enables
users on the network to view the discs in these libraries as simultaneously
mounted virtual disk volumes.  Users are then able to retrieve data from
discs as though they were hard disks, regardless of their physical
location.

"We're building on our success in managing optical and CD-ROM libraries for
the OpenVMS environment, and bringing that technology to Windows NT
systems," said Richard Munroe, Acorn Software president and chief
technology officer.  "VIRTUAL Branches helps make file management
completely transparent to the NT client, who really does not care where the
data resides, as long as it is accessible.  System managers will appreciate
the simplicity of installation and maintenance of VIRTUAL Branches, as well
as its reasonable price."

VIRTUAL Branches for Windows NT can be downloaded now from the Acorn
Software Website at http://www.acornsw.com. Like all other Acorn products,
system managers can use the software for a 45-day free trial period before
purchasing a license.  A permanent license and maintenance contract may be
purchased by contacting Acorn Software online or by telephone.

Acorn Software, Inc. develops and markets data library management software,
storage robotics control software, and removable storage system solutions
for Digital OpenVMS and Windows NT systems.  Acorn Software products
support hierarchical data management and provide seamless integration of
optical disk and tape libraries.  For more information, contact Acorn
Software at 267 Cox Street, Hudson, MA 01 749; phone 508-568-1618; fax
508-562-1133; Internet info@acornsw.com. Acorn makes its virtual home on
the Internet at http://www.acornsw.com.
                                                ###

