1  Overview.txt
=TITLE Overview
Yadman (Yet Another Damn MANdelbrot program) can
generate and display images of the Mandelbrot set.
The Mandelbrot set is produces images of fractals,
fractional dimensions, that are pleasing to the eye.

Fractals are self-similar.  That is, when you zoom
in on a section, it appears similar, but different
to the larger view.  Coastlines are fractal, it is
hard to tell whether you are looking at a few miles
or a few hundred miles of coastline.

Most of the following doesn't matter when you use 
the program, just go ahead and enjoy.

The Mandelbrot set is a set of points laying on the
complex plane.  The complex plane comprises Real 
numbers in the X dimension and Imaginary numbers
in the Y dimension (unless I have it backwards).

A point is in the Mandelbrot set if you perform a
certain calculation and the result is infinity.
Here we approximate the calculation and assign a
color to each point that represents "how quickly 
it is fleeing the set".  In other words, the points
you see are not in the Mandelbrot set, but close
to it.

Computing the image can be very time consuming, 
as each point must be examined in turn.  Please
keep that in mind when choosing areas to view.

For more information on the Mandelbrot set,
please refer to the Computer Recreations
column in the following Scientific Americans:

August 1985, November 1987, and February 1989.

2 hints
=TITLE Hints
The defaults produce an overview of the entire
Mandelbrot set.  Use the NEW function and the
LAUNCH command to generate new views.  Once
you have an image on the screen you can select
an area of interest with the mouse (by pressing
the large rectangular button in the NEW box)
and LAUNCHing that area.

An image of 400 pixels with an iteration of 100
is computable in a reasonable amount of time
even on a .9 VUP machine.  The larger the number
of pixels and the more iterations, the longer
it can take.  I recommend a DECstation 3100 
to really have fun with this program.  It can
generate an 800 pixel image with 250 colors in
only a few minutes.

You can achieve a wide range of special effects
by playing with the values in the COLOR OPTIONS
box.

2 file 
=TITLE File
These are the usual file options, please see
the DECwindows Users Guide for more details.

3 new
=TITLE New
Use the NEW option to generate new images. You
may enter values by hand, or if an image is
already on the screen, use the mouse to select
a sub-region to examine.

The parameters are:

X (Real)	The horizontal direction

Y (Imaginary)	The vertical direction

Length		The distance in the set

Pixels		The size of the image on
		the screen

Iterations	The number of times the
		algorithm tries before
		giving up on a point

Iterations effectively defines the number of
colors you will see, up to the maximum of
your display (usually 16 or 256).  Different
iterations may produce radically different
pictures.  You may discover that an apparently
empty region is filled if you use more iterations.

If an image is already displayed you may press
the large rectangular button to use the mouse
to select an area.  The values will automatically
show up in the the correct fields.

If you type in a number it does not take effect
until you press APPLY.  Pressing RESET brings
back the previous numbers.

LAUNCH causes the image to be generated.  It is
identical to the LAUNCH under the COMMANDS menu.
Please see that section of help for more details.

3 open
=TITLE Open
OPEN is used to read existing files.  A data file
may have just the parameters, or the entire image.
If it has the entire image, then the image is 
displayed.  If it does not, then the window remains
blank and you must press the LAUNCH button to
view the image.

3 save
=TITLE Save
SAVE allows you to save your image, or just your
parameters.  If the image exists, it will be
saved, otherwise just the parameters will be
saved.

3 save_as
=TITLE Save As
SAVE_AS allows you to save your image under a
different name.

3 exit
=TITLE Exit
EXIT causes the application to finish.  If you
have generated an image and not yet saved it,
you are given the option of saving the image 
before you exit.

2 commands 
=TITLE Commands 
The options under the COMMANDS menu cause actions
to take place.

3 launch
=TITLE Launch
LAUNCH causes the image to be generated.  This
can be very time consuming.  Even a small 400
pixel image with 100 iterations can take
more than 10 minutes on a slow machines.
An 800 pixel, 250 iteration image may
take an hour or more.  Of course on a 
DECstation 3100, it takes just a few minutes.

A generation may be cancelled by pressing the cancel
button that appears during the launch.

I find it convenient to examine areas with small 
sizes and small iterations and then when I find an
area of interest, generate it at lunch time with
a larger number of pixels and iterations.

3 animate
=TITLE Animate
ANIMATE manipulates the color map to cause visual
effects approximating those seen daily by inhabitants
of the west coast.

3 brain_fade
=TITLE Brain Fade
BRAIN FADE is another animation sequence.  It is
sometime hard to differentiate between this command
and simply 20 hours of non-stop programming.

2 options
=TITLE Options
OPTIONS gives you the ability to manipulate the
image on the screen.

3 colors
=TITLE Colors
The COLORS option gives you the ability to create
many dazzling visual effectives.  By changing the
values of the three numbers you effect how numbers
are stored in the color map. 

You may type numbers directly, or use the icons to
move them up and down by the selected increment.
Numbers that you type in do not become effective 
until you press the APPLY button.  

Pressing RESET allows brings back the default numbers.

You may choose between SHIFT and MULTIPLY for different
effects.  The former shifts the color map entries by
the shown factor, and the later multiplies them.  If
you really care how it's done, read the source code.

Otherwise, just enjoy.

3 auto_resize
=TITLE Auto Resize
Selecting AUTO RESIZE causes the window to 
automatically assume the same size as the image.

Selecting NO AUTO RESIZE causes the window to
stay the same size and allows you to scroll around
the image.

You may also resize the window at any time by
using the standard DECwindows resize button.
Please refer to the DECwindows Users Guide for
more details.

    

