
        MswLogo Version 3.2 for Micro-Soft Windows 3.0,1 is ready !!!
        -------------------------------------------------------------

The "base kit" is for users with Windows 3.1. The "extensions kit"
is for Windows 3.0 users. The "extensions kit" is not a FULL kit, you still
need the "base kit" for any installation. The "base kit" includes the only
documentation in Microsoft Windows Write (.WRI) format. You can load it into
Write and print for any format you have drivers for including postscript.

mswlgo32.zip (base kit: Windows 3.1)
mswext32.zip (extensions kit: Windows 3.0)

LOCATION: itrc::/millspub/mswlgo32.zip (this is a DEC internal location)
            or
          cher.media.mit.edu on pub/comp.lang.logo/programs/mswlogo
            or
          simtel on PD1:<MSDOS.LOGO> (in queue)
            or
          Send the following message to: ftpmail@decwrl.dec.com 
----cut here----
connect 18.85.0.47
binary
uuencode
chdir pub/comp.lang.logo/programs/mswlogo
get mswlgo32.zip
quit
----cut here----

          Send the following message to: ftpmail@decwrl.dec.com for more
          information on ftpmail
----cut here----
help
----cut here----

Note: The ftpmail server suggested here it is a common service to internet
users from Digital Equipment Corporation.

New features/bugs fixed:

   o All fixes from UCBLOGO 2.9 are in. The main one being that
     test/iftrue/iffalse now works.

   o I've worked quite a bit on the Editor. It is much more tightly integrated
     with Logo. I believe it is Novice-Proof. Multiple Edit sessions are
     supported. See Help on Edit for more details.

   o The Editor will also Automatically bounce you back to the Editor if
     Your Edit could not load (less likely to loose the Edit).

   o Another nice feature in any development environment is context sensitive
     help. Well now you have it. In the Editor Double-click on left button to
     select a Keyword and Click on the Right Button and up comes Help
     on that Keyword :-).

   o The programmable windows scroller was flaky and is now fixed.

   o I don't know how or when this slipped in, but the active-area dialog
     box was broken and now working (again).

   o Double-click in Command Recall will now execute that line.

   o The Icon now works on the Commander. Sometimes what appears to be
     so simple can be a nightmare (the Icon on the commander took days
     to work right). And some things that appears complex, so easy (Logo
     itself does not have one line of code to support the Clipboard,
     it's all just there).

   o Pause now works when at Top Level.

   o Yield, NoYield, and Halt are available as logo commands.

   o One problem with MswLogo has been knowing if it's running or not
     when doing non-graphical operations. Typically the Hour-glass cursor
     is used for this. But this is not possible since the cursor can be used
     while it's running. I've added another "statistic" to the Status Window.
     It shows how many "Calls" (including calls to built in functions) since
     the last time you hit the Execute Button.

     It serves two purposes. One, you now have another measure to compare
     solutions. Second it acts as an indicator it is running. You may also
     ask why bury information, such as this in the popup window. The reason
     is performance and screen real estate.

   o You can now load Logo and Auto Start programs from the command line
     (similar to UCBLogo). The switch is "-l" (stands for Load). It MUST be
     the last switch on command line. For example:

     c:\logo>win logo -w 800 -h 800 -l c:\logo\mytest.lg

     You can also set these args in the properties of the Icon.
     This way you can have different Icons for different initialization
     sequences.

   o And as usual the Help file has had some work and still needs more.
     It's getting there.

   o Oh, And hopefully I did not screw up the Build for Multi-Media this time.

(Thanks to many folks for spotting many of these bugs, feedback is getting
better but I can always use more)

NOTE: Windows 3.0 users there is a separate executable for 3.0
      due to the MultiMedia enhancements which 3.0 does not have.

To Install it:

Note, NO environment variables (set xxx=yyy commands) needed.

1) UnZip MSWLGO32.ZIP into a directory (e.g. c:\logo)

2) UnZip LOGOLIB.ZIP (included in MSWLGO32.ZIP) into LOGOLIB
   (e.g. c:\logo\logolib). The library used to be optional on mswlogo
   it is required from now on.

3) UnZip EXAMPLES.ZIP (included in MSWLGO32.ZIP) into EXAMPLES
   (e.g. c:\logo\examples). These are optional examples.

4) Copy BWCC.DLL (included in the .ZIP) to anywhere in your PATH.
   The desired place is in your root windows directory (e.g. c:\windows).

5) Start Windows and add an Icon as follows:

   a) Select the applications (or other desired) group box.

   b) Go into Program manger FILE menu and click on New.

   c) Select Program Item and click OK.

   d) Enter the command for logo (e.g. c:\logo\logo).

      Note: Windows 3.0 users MUST use logo30 (e.g. c:\logo\logo30).
      You must get logo30.exe from the "extensions kit".
      You may also delete the .EXE you do not use here.

      This can also be where you select the size of the image (NOT the size
      window). The switches "-h number" (to select height) and "-w number" (to
      select width). The default has been and still is 1000x1000. For example
      to change to a 500x500 image (using 1/4 the amount of memory) enter:

      c:\logo\logo -h 500 -w 500

   e) Include a working directory (e.g. c:\logo\work) or you'll have logo
      files all over the place (this is available only to Windows 3.1).

Start it from Windows by double clicking the Logo Icon

Start it from DOS by typing "win logo [options]" at DOS prompt (assuming
logo.exe is in your PATH).

Try typing "DEMO" in the "Input Box".

Standard features:

   o Supports Text in all available fonts and sizes.
   o Cut, Paste and stretching bitmaps.
   o Zoom.
   o Tail recursion.
   o User error handling.
   o "Standard" Logo parsing.
   o Floodfill.
   o Save and restore images in .BMP format.
   o 16.7 million pen and background colors (using windows dithering).
   o Supports color palette (256 solid colors).
   o Standard Windows Hypertext Help.
   o Standard Windows Printing.
   o Supports separate library and work area.

Recommended usage:

   o If your a ucblogo user and waiting for a windows version.
     Use it now, I think you'll like it.

   o If your a former mswlogo user and you, your child or students
     are happy with their progress and usefulness on mswlogo 2.4
     then stick with it for now. Once you've reached some of mswlogo 2.4's
     weaknesses (like limits in recursion, large programs hard to manage
     etc. then you may want to give it a try now). 

Bugs / Basic Missing features:

   o Real mode is not supported.
   o Printing on (very few) printers still doesn't work.
   o Need arrow-key command recall.
   o Character cell operations missing, setcursor etc.
   o Online help that a younger user can understand.
   o User controlled buttons and dialog boxes.
   o Bugs you find.

   o If a bug is really bugging you or feature you really want to see done,
     say so, by sending me email. This will help me determine what's important.
     No promises, but it will help. I love any feedback good or bad.

Reporting bugs:

   Report bugs to George Mills (mills@athena.lkg.dec.com). I do have
   an account on compuserve but I prefer internet mail (which is available
   on compuserv).

   You can also report bugs to Brian Harvey (bh@anarres.cs.berkeley.edu)
   if you think it's the core (or a possibility of the core). If you know
   it's related to the enhanced functions or the Windows front-end Brian
   probably won't care to know about it.

Sources:
 
   I apologize for not having source available yet. These quick interim
   releases were not planned. So I'm pushing the source release out to 3.4.
   But if you really really want sources for porting to Non-English language.
   Drop me some email. A lot of folks are interested in adding Floor turtle
   support. I have briefly looked into Peek and Poke to possibly allow these
   customizations to be done as a Logo program. But I've had little luck.

Minimum System Requirements:

   286 with Minimum of 2meg running Window 3.0 in Standard Mode.

Wish list:

   o Sound generation.
   o Multi-line Clipboard support.
   o Multiple Turtles.

Public domain Logo's (on IBMPCs):

LADYBUG - Simple cute (barely logo) program. The thing that is impressive
          is how the author added music (using the PC speaker). CGA-DOS.
          NO support.

DOSLOGO - Based on Lincoln Sudbury Regional High School and Boston Children's
          Museum (Brian Harvey was involved with the enhancements that the
          High school added). It was running on Unix and VMS (and others)
          when I ported to DOS in 1990. I did not release it to
          outside of DEC until MswLogo. It runs fairly well but has some
          architectural problems (non "standard parsing", no tail recursion,
          limit of one routine per file). Poor user interface. NO support.

MSWLOGO24 or older - Based on DOSLOGO. Many graphical extensions a nice user
          interface but still has the same problems as DOSLOGO. NO support.

UCBLOGO - Brian Harvey at Berkeley started over with this project and is
          a Decent core. But again under DOS has a poor user interface.
          Supported. Best public Domain for DOS.

MSWLOGO3X or newer - Based on UCBLOGO and MSWLOGO24 (the best of Both)
          Good user interface and good core. Supported. Best public Domain
          for Windows (that I know of at this time).
