
   Frequently Asked Questions about distributing Zip and UnZip:


   Q. Can I distribute Zip and UnZip sources and/or executables?

   A. You may redistribute the latest official distributions without
      any modification, and without even asking us for permission.
      [Note that an "executable distribution" includes documentation,
      even if it's in a separate zipfile; plain executables do NOT
      count.]  You can charge for the cost of the media (CDROM, disk-
      ettes, etc.) and a small copying fee.  Distributed archives
      should follow the naming conventions used in the Where file.
      If you want to distribute modified versions please contact us
      at zip-bugs@wkuvx1.wku.edu first.  You must not distribute beta
      versions without explicit permission to do so.


   Q. Can I use the executables of Zip and UnZip to distribute my
      software?

   A. Yes, so long as it is clear that Zip and UnZip are not being
      sold, that the source code is freely available, and that there
      are no extra or hidden charges resulting from its use by or in-
      clusion with the commercial product.  Here is an example of a
      suitable notice:

         NOTE:  <Product> is packaged on this CD using Info-ZIP's
         compression utility.  The installation program uses UnZip
         to read zip files from the CD.  Info-ZIP's software (Zip,
         UnZip and related utilities) is free and can be obtained
         as source code or executables from various bulletin board
         services and anonymous-ftp sites, including CompuServe's
         IBMPRO forum and ftp.uu.net:/pub/archiving/zip/*.


   Q. Can I use the source code of Zip and UnZip in my commercial
      application?
   A. Yes, so long as you include in your product an acknowledgment
      and an offer of the original compression sources for free or for
      a small copying fee, and make clear that there are no extra or
      hidden charges resulting from the use of the compression code by
      your product (see below for an example).  The acknowledgment should
      appear in at least one piece of human-readable documentation (e.g.,
      a README file or man page), although additionally putting it in
      the executable(s) is OK, too.  In other words, you are allowed to
      sell only your own work, not ours--and we'd like a little credit.
      [Note the additional restrictions above on the code in unreduce.c,
      unshrink.c and vms.c.]  Contact us at zip-bugs@wkuvx1.wku.edu if
      you have special requirements.  We also like to know when our code
      is being used, but we don't require that.

         <Product> incorporates compression code by the Info-ZIP group.
         There are no extra charges or costs due to the use of this code,
         and the original compression sources are freely available from
         CompuServe in the IBMPRO forum and by anonymous ftp from the
         Internet site ftp.uu.net:/pub/archiving/zip.  We will also, upon
         request, mail you the full sources on a 3.5" MSDOS-format disk-
         ette for the cost of mailing.  Send $2.00 to <address> and ..."
