

ATTENTION REGISTERED WGT USER!

	The long-awaited version 3.0 has now been released! We are accepting
orders for the MASSIVE upgrade to our Turbo C++ library and utilities. Sadly,
the Turbo Pascal support has been very weak, and we have been forced to cancel
production. However, this devotes our total attention to the further
development of the C version.

	We wish to thank several of our registered users for their help in
bringing success to our business. Thanks to Steven Salter (INDIANA), for his
continuous onslaught of code and suggestions, without which we'd get very
bored. Thanks to Vu Truong (CALIFORNIA) for the creation of the first full-
fledged game, STELCON 2469, made with WGT systems. Thanks to Felix Wu (ONTARIO)
for the FLI playing documentation which allowed us to provide support in
version 3. Thanks to Steven Racki (ONTARIO) for being the FIRST registered
user of our products. And thanks to Michael Prunner (AUSTRIA) for being our
first overseas registered user.

	Well, I should advertise the improvements in version 3 to get everyone
interested. I'm sure it won't take much to get world-wide attention with the
new Map Maker and 4-directional scrolling features. Here are some of the facts:

Map Maker 	- Create game worlds with 16*16 pixel bitmaps (tiles)
		- Map dimensions up to 200*200 tiles (higher in future!)
		- Allows placement of sprites over background to set initial
		  positions in game
		- 'Paint' your map in EDIT mode like a drawing program
		- Assign each of (up to) 200 tiles a unique type value
		  (each value can represent a physical property in a program)
		- Allows up to 500 sprites on each map!

Sprite Creator  - All bugs causing lock-ups have been fixed
		- Added capability to copy block of sprites to another location
		- PCX and CEL support improved
		- accompanying utility GIF2BLK provides further conversions
		- has become the standard for other programmers to beat

Turbo C++ system- custom fonts may be loaded and displayed
		- drop down menu system
		- flip, warp, and FAST resize block (source for resize incl.)
		- FLI playing routines (flexible, can resize while playing,
		  can animate sprites over FLI, etc.)
		- 4 directional scrolling of game worlds in window on screen
		  (window from 2*2 tiles to 17*10, frame rate varies with size)
		- WGTLIB executable packs any given files into one large file
		  with password protection, your program will automatically
		  load from this file with the addition of only two lines of
		  source code!

In the future   - Extended control over maps (transparent maps with picture
		  in background, can play FLI in background while map scrolls
		  in front!)
		- we are considering creation of two-player mode for maps
		  which puts two small windows on the screen and allows two
		  players to play in same game (independent map control will
		  allow players to be in different areas at same time)
		- EMS support, sound playing routines, etc











	WGT plans to move forward at a rapid pace following this release. We
hope that a wide interest in the product will allow new ideas to arise, and
thus product enhancement. We have been asked many times if we intend to add
mode X support, and we regret to inform you that there will be no action taken
on this avenue. Our system was designed for speed and flexibility in one mode
only. Mode X uses an entirely different approach to pixel placement, and would
require a complete rewrite of the current code.

	A final note, no shipments will be made until November 21, 1992. We
accept orders before that date, but will not cash any cheques until then. Feel
free to write to us concerning any questions you may have.

		Thanks again, and good luck in 1993!



			

	Barry Egerter					Chris Egerter





	  *********** PROGRAMMING CONTEST ANNOUNCEMENT ***********


	We are now running a programming contest open to all registered
	users of WGT systems. The idea of the contest is to create a quality
	program of any sort (game, utility, etc) using WGT. We are doing
	this to generate further interest in our product, as well as
	offer a reward to those who produce with it. All submissions should
	be sent to our mailing address on, or before December 31, 1993.
	Judging will take place until February. The winner will be announced
	on February 1, 1994. They will be notified by mail, as well as a
	public message broadcast through E-mail on PC-networks and
	Internet.

	Submissions will be judged based on concept, design, effectiveness,
	completeness, documentation, bugs, and overall rating. We are not
	going to judge based on the type of program, but rather the
	professional result.

	The first prize is $80.00 in cash. This would be a full refund of
	money invested in WGT if you registered everything for version 3.
	
	The second prize is a lifetime of free upgrades for all WGT products.

	All programs must, in some screen during execution, mention WGT
	and our mailing address. We ask also, that we be given the right to
	promote our systems by distribution of the shareware version of your
	product with our future releases. We will fully support your efforts
	by helping to advertise your final product. When a potential customer
	asks about WGT, we want to refer them to your software.

	As far as code goes, we don't want source. We will judge only the
	final product. You may combine our system with other libraries
	(eg. sound, memory, disk storage, screen output, etc).

