                                                                 xautolock(l)





   NAME

     xautolock - locks X display after a period of inactivity



   SYNOPSIS

     xautolock [-help] [-version] [-time minutes] [-locker locker]
               [-notify margin] [-bell percent] [-corners xxxx]
               [-cornerdelay secs] [-cornersize pixels] [-noclose]



   DESCRIPTION

     When xautolock is started, it monitors the user activity on the worksta-
     tion. When no activity is detected within minutes minutes, the screen is
     automatically locked, using the screen locker specified with the -locker
     option. xautolock is capable of managing multiheaded displays.

     In the presence of the -notify option, a warning signal will be issued
     margin seconds before starting the locker. The -bell option specifies
     the loudness of the signal in percent.

     You can tell xautolock to take special actions when you move the mouse
     into one of the corners of the display and leave it there, by using the
     -corners, -cornerdelay and -cornersize options. This works as follows :

     The xxxx argument to the -corners option must consist of exactly 4 char-
     acters from the following set : '0', '+', '-'.  Each one of these speci-
     fies what xautolock should do when the mouse enters a small square area
     located in each of the corners of the screen. The corners are considered
     in the following order : top left, top right, bottom left, bottom right.
     A '0' indicates that xautolock should ignore the corner.  A '+' indi-
     cates that xautolock should start the locker after secs seconds, unless
     the mouse is moved, or keyboard input is received. A '-' indicates that
     xautolock not start the locker at all. The pixels argument specifies the
     size in pixels of the corner areas.

     By default xautolock closes stdout and stderr. This prevents the screen-
     locker from writing error messages to these files in case you manually
     lock your display. The -noclose option causes xautolock not to close
     stdout and stderr. This can be used for debugging.

     You can also disable xautolock by sending it a SIGHUP signal. When dis-
     abled, it will not attempt to start the screenlocker. To re-enable it,
     send it another SIGHUP. This method is preferable to using SIGSTOP and
     SIGCONT, because while SIGHUPped, xautolock will still be emptying its
     event queue.



                                                                            1






   xautolock(l)




   OPTIONS


     -help         Print a help message and exit.

     -version      Print the version number and exit.

     -time         Specifies the time-out interval. The default is 10
                   minutes, the minimum is 1 minute and the maximum is 1
                   hour.

     -locker       Specifies the screen locker to be used. The default is
                   "xlock 2>&- 1>&-". Your PATH is used to locate the pro-
                   gram.  Notice that if locker contains several words, it
                   must be specified between quotes.

     -notify       Warn the user margin seconds before locking. The default
                   is not to warn the user.

     -bell         Specifies the loudness of the notification signal. The
                   default is 40 percent. This option is only usefull in con-
                   junction with -notify.

     -corners      Define special actions to be taken when the mouse enters
                   one of the corners of the display. The default is 0000,
                   which means that no special actions are taken.

     -cornerdelay  Specifies the number of seconds to wait before reacting to
                   a '+' corner. The default is 5 seconds.

     -cornersize   Specifies the size in pixels of the corner areas. The
                   default is 10 pixels.

     -noclose      Don't close stdout and stderr.



   RESOURCES


     time          Specifies the time out period.

     locker        Specifies the screen locker. No quotes are needed, even if
                   your screen locker command contains several words.

     notify        Specifies the notification margin.

     bell          Specifies the notification loudness.

     corners       Specifies the corner behaviour.

     cornersize    Specifies the size of the corner areas.


   2






                                                                 xautolock(l)


     cornerdelay   Specifies the delay of a '+' corner.

     noclose       Don't close stdout and stderr.


     Resources can be specified in your ~/.Xdefaults file either
     for class Xautolock, or for whatever name you renamed xautolock to. For
     example : if you have two copies of xautolock, one called "xfreeze", and
     one called "xmonitor", then both will understand the following :

       Xautolock.corners: ++++

     In addition, "xfreeze" will understand :

       xfreeze.cornersize: 10

     while "xmonitor" will understand :

       xmonitor.cornersize: 5



   KNOWN BUGS

     xautolock does not check whether locker is available.

     The xautolock resources have no resource class.



   COPYRIGHT

     Copyright 1990, 1992 by S. De Troch and MCE.

     Permission to use, copy, modify and distribute this software and the
     supporting documentation without fee is hereby granted, provided that :

      1 : Both the above copyright notice and this permission notice
          appear in all copies of both the software and the supporting
          documentation.
      2 : You don't make a profit out of it.

     THE AUTHORS DISCLAIM ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE,
     INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO
     EVENT SHALL THEY BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL
     DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR
     PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS
     ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF
     THIS SOFTWARE.







                                                                            3






   xautolock(l)


   AUTHORS

     Stefan De Troch (detroch@imec.be), Michel Eyckmans (eyckmans@imec.be).



   SPECIAL THANKS TO

     Kris Croes (croes@imec.be).















































   4
