Software
Product
Description	BRANCHESª
PRODUCT NAME:	Branchestm  for OpenVMS	SPD 40.00
	Tape Library Management and Robotic Control Software


Branches is tape library management and robotics control software that
automatically and transparently controls media movement and manages data
within tape autochangers (often referred to as stackers or autochangers).
Branches supports HSM operations, backup and data archiving.  It is fully
integrated with OpenVMS Backup, making automatic multi-volume saves and
restores fast and easy.

Branches can be quickly installed via VMSINSTAL and can be used with
familiar DCL commands.  The software enables system managers and application
developers alike to seamlessly integrate off-the-shelf tape data libraries
into their Digital environments.

Branches meets or exceeds the storage intensive requirements of applications
such as imaging, multimedia and large database system as well as the
recurrent requirements of typical data library applications like archiving,
backup and restores.

Branches provides OpenVMS VAX and AXP processors transparent access to
libraries locally or within a cluster.  Branches requires no modifications
to OpenVMS software, eliminating any need for customized solutions such as
new device drivers or software patches on any of those systems.

Benefits
Transparent integration for tape libraries with mass storage management,
data archiving, file migration, and backups on both standalone and clustered
systems.

Automatic tracking and management of data volumes within a library.
Fast/easy direct-access to data for local, LAN and WAN users.
Total lights-out backups (no operator).
Unassisted volume locating and mounting (no operator).
Improved cost-effectiveness of data library technology.
Reduced data storage costs through more efficient management of hardware.  
Easy-to-install and use software product; no additional training required.
Features
Supports libraries; 4mm, 8mm, DLT, 3480, T-120, & 1/2".
Compatible with native Digital SCSI ports.
Compatible with industry-standard CMD Technology Fast SCSI-2 host adapters
for Digital Q-BUS, DSSI, VAXBI, and CI.

Compatible with off-the-shelf SCSI based data libraries; ADIC, Breece Hill,
Conner, Cipher, Digital, DLI, Exabyte, Odetics, Quantum, SpectraLogics and
others.

DCL commands
Automatic failover support for non-stop usage in a VMScluster 
Extensive error recovery for increased system reliability.
Supports OpenVMS Backup utility.
Full integration with all OpenVMS applications.
Installs automatically and easily (VMSINSTAL in less than 30 mn.)
Supports bar code readers for all libraries having them.
Functional Description
Branches coordinates library robotics and interfaces library data to OpenVMS
VAX and AXP system services, making data directly accessible to applications
and programs using these services.  Users can also individually control
library data volumes through the use of either the OpenVMS services or DCL
commands provided by Branches.

Using Branches, a user can:
Import individual or magazine(s) full of media into a data library.
Load individual media into a specified device.
Export media or magazine(s) of media from a data library.
Dismount individual media previously mounted.
Initialize parts of the data library (including inventory database) with
the respective contents.

Show contents of objects managed by Branches.
Trace commands and other internal information for monitoring a       data
library.

Tune account quotas for optimal use of VMS BACKUP.
Applications
Managing large amounts of data easily requires uncomplicated access to mass
storage.  Branches users can store, manage, access, share and retrieve their
data in a central location (a data library), wherever they work quite
simply.  With Branches, problems like file duplication are reduced, costs of
data management minimized, and costly operator support eliminated.

Prerequisites
Any valid OpenVMS system configuration  (version 5.4 or later for VAX,
version 1.5 or later  for AXP) supported by Digital Equipment  Corporation
with:

CI, DSSI, Q-BUS, SCSI, VAXBI interface.
Host adapter or interface board (e.g., CMD  Technology, Inc.).
SCSI-based data library. 
Distribution Media/Documentation
Branches is available on TK50, 4mm, or over the internet at
http://www.acornsw.com/.  Free trials of Branches for 45 days are provided
automatically.  After this point, full payment for Branches must be
received.  All user documentation is availble both in hard copy and on-line.

Installation
Branches installs using VMSINSTAL.
Software Warranty
Warranty for this product is provided by Acorn  Software, Inc., with the
purchase of a permanent  license for the product. Acorn Software warrants
conformance to this document for one year from purchase. An additional
Software Maintenance Warranty, which includes automatic updates to new
versions of this product and phone support, is available at the time of
purchase. Purchase of this warranty is recommended. Acorn Software, Inc.,
will remedy any nonconformance reported during the first year of operation. 

Software Licensing
Upon installation, a 45 day license to use Branches is automatically
granted.  Before any additional license is granted, payment in full must be
received by Acorn Software.

Ordering Information
Software license:	BL-*-VMS, BL-*-AXP
Software Maintanence:	BM-*-12
* Variant fields.  For additional information on available license, media,
documentation, services, and warranty refer to the Branches price list.

Sales Contact Information
Acorn Software, Inc.
	267 Cox St.
	Hudson, Ma. 01749 USA
	tel.: (508) 568-1618 x3
	fax: (508) 562-1133
	info@acornsw.com

Distributed Logic SA (DILOG SA)
	Route de Boudry 16, CH-2016
	Cortaillod, Switzerland
	tel.: (41) 38 42 44 54
	fax: (41) 38 43 11 85



