          Software Product Description

          GCE Deletion Protection System (DPS)

          Description: The GCE Deletion Protection System is designed to
          provide protection against accidental deletion of file types
          chosen by the site, and to allow files to be routed by the
          system to backup media before they are finally removed from the
          system. This is accomplished by an add-in to the VMS file system
          so that security holes are not introduced by the system's
          action.

          The user interface is an  UNDELETE command which permits one or
          more files to be restored to their original locations provided
          it is issued within the site-chosen time window after the undesired
          deletion took place. In addition, an EXPUNGE command is provided
          which allows files to be deleted at once, irretrievably, where
          space for such is required. Provision for automatic safe-storing
          of files prior to final deletion is present also in DPS.

          DPS is implemented as a VMS file system add-in which functions
          by intercepting the DELETE operation and allowing the file to be
          deleted to be copied or renamed to a "wastebasket" holding area
          pending final action, and to be disposed of by a disposal agent.
          The supplied agent will allow a site script to save the files if
          this is desired, and then finally deletes any files which have
          been deleted more than some number N seconds ago. If the
          UNDELETE command is given, the file(s) undeleted are replaced in
          their original sites. The supplied system can also be configured
          to rename files to a wastebasket area or to copy them directly,
          for undeletion by systems people only. (These options are faster
          than the site command file option.)

          DPS can be configured to omit certain file types from deletion
          protection (for example, *.LIS* or *.MAP* could be omitted), to
          include only certain files in the protected sets, or both. This
          can reduce the overhead of saving files which are likely to be
          easily recreated, or tailor the system for such actions as
          saving all mail files (by selecting *.MAI for inclusion).

          In addition, DPS monitors free space on disks, and when a file
          create or extend would cause space exhaustion, DPS runs a site
          script. By setting this script to perform final deletions, DPS
          can be run in a purely automatic mode in which deleted files are
          saved as long as possible, but never less than some minimum
          period (e.g., 5 or 10 minutes).

          DPS files can be stored in any location accessible to VMS. If
          they are renamed, they must reside on the same disk they came
          from. Otherwise they can be stored in any desired place.

          DPS is installed and configured using a screen oriented
          configuration utility to set it up, and basically runs
          unattended once installed.

          Supported Hardware and Software:

          DPS runs on any VMS Vax or Alpha/AXP platform. On Vax it
          supports VMS 5.5 or later. On AXP it supports VMS 6.1 or later.
          Internally, DPS uses only published and supported internal VMS
          interfaces, and thus is  independent of which file system is in
          use. However, its use with third party file systems such as NFS
          client systems is untested and should be tested before a site
          commits to using it heavily.

          DPS is available for 45 day trial use licenses or can be
          licensed permanently. DPS is required on every node of a cluster
          using it, or its benefits will not be available on nodes not
          having the software running. Apart from this, there are no
          problems with having DPS available on only part of a VMS
          cluster.

          Deletion Protection System

          General Cybernetic Engineering
          Glenn C. Everhart
          18 Colburn Lane
          Hollis, NH 03049
          603 465 9517 (Fax: 603 465 9518)

          Everhart@GCE.Com
          (Everhart@gce.mv.com)

