Changes since 0.7.5
0.  VMS port thanks to Andrew Greer (Andrew.Greer@vuw.ac.nz)
1.  Small bug in help.c corrected that caused problems on some systems if a
    custom help file was used.
2.  New function: repeat_last_key.  The default binding is `.'.  The
    function that `.' used to be bound to has been moved to `;'.
3.  slrn.rc may be placed in SLRN_LIB_DIR to provide defaults for all users,
    e.g., organization, hostname, ...  See INSTALL.
4.  Catchup bindings changed in article mode.  (By popular demand).
5.  Misc improvements.

Changes since 0.7.4
1.  Oops!  It was possible to cancel any article in the old version.  I
    forgot to add a `return' statement after checking to make sure that the
    person cancelling actually posted the article.
2.  Missing comma between two strings in help.c added.
3.  `delete_thread' function added to article mode keybindings
4.  `followup' added to slrn.rc.  This allows the user to set the followup 
     string.  For example, I use:  followup "On %d, %r <%f> wrote:"
     See slrn.rc for more information.
5.  It is now possible to concatenate newsrc files.  slrn will now ignore
    repetitions.  For example, suppose that you have an old newsrc file that
    you wish to bring uptodate.  Let's call it `old'.  Suppose that another
    one, `new' is much more extensive.  Then do:
    
        % mv old old~
	% cat old~ new > old
	% slrn -f old
	
    If you have no idea how this may be useful, then you do not need it.
6.  Group mode searches will automatically wrap.    
7.  Some support for automatic detection of ``super-cited'' articles so that
    quoted lines are handled properly.  This works most of the time.
8.  If `set no_backups 1' appears in the .slrnrc file, backups of the .newsrc
    file is turned off.
9.  `g' in article mode will skip to the next digest.
10. User is now prompted for chance to re-edit a message after editing.
11. `set beep 0' may now be used to turn off the bell.  See slrn.rc.

Changes since 0.7.3
1.  -i init-file command option added.  This allows a different slrn.rc file
    to be specified (default: .slrnrc).
2.  Silly problem fixed when -create option used but .newsrc does not exist.
3.  A line read in from the server that begins with two periods is stripped 
    of one of them as RFC977 requires.
4.  Using a prefix argument to the followup command will insert the original
    headers into the followup.
5.  If server drops the connection, an attempt is made to reconnect.
    (ljz@panix.com)

Changes since 0.7.2
1.  Slight modification to extract real name routine so that if the name is
    not available, the address is used.
2.  Now possible to specifiy a color for quoted text via `color quotes'.
    The default is: color quotes red white
    This really does improve readability of an article with quoted material!
3.  NNRP authentification support added.  In .slrnrc, use a line like:
       nnrpaccess HOSTNAME USERNAME PASSWORD
 
Changes since 0.7.1
0.  The XPAT server command is exploited if it is available.  Not all servers
      support it even though it is pretty standard.
1.  ESC Ctrl-P will find all children of current header by querying the
    server.
2.  Confirm Follow-up when poster sets the followup line to poster.
3.  ESC-d will now mark the current thread as read-- that is, current header
    plus all children.
4.  SPACE in article mode can be used to read next article or go to next
    group if pressed twice at the end of the current article.
    
Changes since 0.7.0
1.  Typo in the `unsetkey' function corrected.  The typo was a serious one.
2.  Small change in the Top/Bottom/Percentage calculation for the status line.
3.  Misc bug fixes
4.  See help.txt for creating your own custom help screen.

Changes since 0.6.3
1.  Added `realname' to slrn.rc file.
2.  TRUE referenced based threading added.  Subject sorting has been 
      abandoned.  A tree in drawn showing how articles are threaded.  The
      color of the tree may be specified by `color tree' in your .slrnrc
      file.  ESC-p will got to the parent of the current header.
      
      Note:  If the terminal cannot support line drawing characters, the
      tree will not appear.

Changes since 0.6.2
1.  Xref mark as read now takes advantage of group name hashing.
2.  Fixed problem with getlogin on some systems.

Changes since 0.6.1
1.  `N' in article mode will now skip on to next group.  Lowercase `n' still
    retains its previous meaning.
2.  Bug fixed in catchup-all in article mode.  Previously, it did not mark
    all as read.
3.  A description of each newsgroup can be displayed next to the group name. 
    Use ESC-a to toggle it on/off.
4.  New environment variable SLRN_LIB_DIR determines where to load files
    that may be shared by all users, e.g., the group description file.  By
    default, it is /usr/local/lib/slrn.  See INSTALL for more details.
    
Changes since 0.6.0
1.  The `G' key at group mode may be used to retrieve new news from the
    server.  In addition, `X' will force the newsrc file to be saved.
2.  Small bug corrected that manifests itself when no groups are subscribed
    to (a very rare situation).
3.  The one-line help at the bottom of the screen is always visible now.  Of
    course, the full on-line help is still available.
4.  The Makefile has been modified so that slrn may be easily termified
    under Linux.
5.  Fixed a silly bug that made the -C color flag do nothing.

Changes since 0.5.3
1.  Selecting a group with an ESC prefix digit argument will now select
    unread articles too.
2.  My uudecode program can also unpack shell archives.  No need to edit
    those headers either.
3.  When replying, the user defined quote string is used to quote the
    article. 
4.  ESC-r from article mode will toggle rot13 decryption.
5.  `|' in article mode will pipe article to an external command (e.g., lpr)
6.  Some cosmetic improvements by ljz@ingress.com (Lloyd Zusman).
7.  ESC-U, ESC-u, ESC-C, ESC-c added by ljz@ingress.com (Lloyd Zusman).
    These functions may be used to catchup and un-catchup on articles in
    article mode.
8.  IF the line: `set show_article 1' appears in your .slrnrc file, the
    article is displayed when article mode is entered.

Changes since 0.5.2
1.  Path header added when posting
2.  When the newsrc file is written, a backup is made of the previous version.

Changes since 0.5.1
1.  ESC-a toggles showing author's name on/off in the header window.  This
    provides a wider display for the subject.

Changes since 0.5.0
1.  Improved help screen for beginners.
2.  ESC-s now toggles header sorting on/off.
Changes since 0.4.0
1.    LOGNAME environment variable now checked to get the user's login name.
      Previously, only USER was checked.
2.    newsrc file locking added.
3.    TAB key now moves past quoted text
4.    `autobaud' keyword in .slrnrc file may be used to incicate that the
      output rate to the terminal should be synchronized to the terminal
      baud rate.  This behavior was always the default in previous versions.
      Now, it is off by default.
5.  The `L' key in the group menu may now be used to toggle the display of
    unsubscribed groups on and off.  

