From: C.A. Brooks <ihnp4!mhuxn!mhuxm!sftig!sftri!sfmag!cath@Ucb-Vax.ARPA>
Subject: Product Announcement:  AT&T UNIX System Toolchest
Date: 8 Apr 85 22:21:05 GMT

PRODUCT ANNOUNCEMENT:   AT&T UNIXTM System Toolchest


1.  Overview

The UNIXTM System Toolchest is a collection of tools and a distribution
mechanism for unsupported UNIX system based AT&T software and its
documentation.

The major goal of the Toolchest is to encourage UNIX system application
development by providing an outlet for seeder material to the commercial
UNIX system community.

Presently, it contains 23 AT&T tools with about 20 more to be added each
quarter.  Tools are unsupported, available in source with sublicensing
provisions, distributed electronically, and priced intentionally low.

The Toolchest was introduced to domestic Value Added Reseller (VAR)
customers in January '85.  As of now, the customer base is extended to
all UNIX System V source licensees and to selected Independent
Software Vendors (ISVs) participating in AT&T's ISV/VIP program.  It
is currently limited to licensees in the continental U. S. and Canada.
Universities and government agencies are included.  No special
discounts apply, however.


2.  Features

   o "Simple" tools and applications from AT&T
   o Individually available, in source, "as is," with sublicensing
     provisions
   o Software, documentation, and installation instructions all on-line
   o Screened by AT&T for technical merit and installation on AT&T 3B20
     System V Release 2 (SVR2)
   o Electronic distribution using dial-up network, including free browsing
     of descriptive information
   o Priced intentionally low -- presently the median price for source is
     about $200 and the range is $40 to $2000.

There are a variety of tools currently in the Toolchest in categories
such as database, debugger, driver, editor, environment, file utility,
game, language, office automation, and programming aid.  The Toolchest
catalog of software is updated periodically; current listings and
prices are those found on-line.


3.  Access

   o Dial 1-201-522-6900.  Login as guest.  Tell the system what kind of
     terminal you are using.
   o You must have an ASCII asynchronous CRT and 1200 baud modem to login
     and browse.  Most such terminals in the terminfo database of System V
     are supported by the full-screen, menu-oriented browsing software.
     Paper terminals are not supported at this time.
   o To obtain tools, the customer must supply the uucp information for a
     receiving machine.  1200 baud is preferred, but not required.  Also,
     the customer must have the appropriate language compiler because tools
     are delivered in source.


4.  Registration

   o Requests for licensing registration are made on-line by browsers.
     These requests result in a license agreement being mailed out to the
     person's company for signature.
   o A general license agreement, covering all tools in the Toolchest, must
     be signed prior to receipt of any software.
   o The company must designate persons eligible to order from the
     Toolchest.  The company can insist that each such person supply a
     Purchase Order number when tools are ordered by noting this on the
     authorization forms.  Each person will be assigned a password by AT&T,
     for account security.
   o uucp information for one or more receiving machines per registration
     must be supplied to AT&T.
   o There is a fee of $100 for registration.  The registration fee has
     been waived for all UNIX System V source licensees, but is required of
     anyone holding only a binary license.


5.  License_Agreement

   o The source fee allows for multiple copies of source for internal use,
     with no charge or reporting on additional CPU's.
   o Sublicensing provisions are also covered by the generic license.  The
     fee is a one time lump sum per tool which allows unlimited numbers of
     binary sublicenses without royalty payments.  The customer is
     obligated to acknowledge AT&T in all advertising for products based on
     Toolchest software with a phrase such as "contains software from the
     UNIX System Toolchest."
   o To activate permission for sublicensing, the customer must login to
     the Toolchest and indicate the specific tools to be sublicensed.
