Date: 26 Aug 85 16:56:36 EDT (Monday)
From: DMurray.WBST%xerox.arpa@AMC-HQ
To: Furuta%washington.arpa@AMC-HQ
To: info-vax%sri-kl.arpa@AMC-HQ
To: Unix-Wizards%sri-kl.arpa@AMC-HQ
Subject: Unix Interpress Toolkit

The Xerox Imaging Systems Laboratory has developed an Interpress Toolkit
that is now available to those wishing to develop Interpress printing
applications.  The kit was intended for Unix 4.2bsd installations;
however, substantial portions of it run under VMS and probably many
other operating systems as well.  The XNS Institute will provide the kit
in source form and "as is" to those meeting AT&T Unix license
requirements.  The documentation is available free simply by contacting
the address below; the software itself may require a nominal duplication
charge.


Initially, the Interpress Toolkit was developed for R&D purposes.
Subsequent versions have been installed/tested in universities and other
sites where it is used for general laser printing applications.  It was
mentioned in Xerox's recent announcement of the 18+ companies who are
supporting Interpress.  The toolkit consists of the following:

	1 - Dipress, a post processor for Typesetter Independent Troff which 
	    generates Interpress output (works with Eqn, Tbl, Pic, ...)
		
	2 - IPTroff, a C-shell script which calls Typesetter Independent Troff
	    and Dipress
	    
	3 - Maha, a program which converts ASCII text files to Interpress,
	    i.e. a line printer emulator
	
	4 - IPToText and TextToIP, programs which convert back and forth
	    between the Interpress encoded form and a text readable form
	    (nice for testing and trying options)

	5 - CharSet, a program which creates an Interpress master to print all
	    sysmbols in a font, i.e. a symbol table builder-printer
	
	6 - Lib/ip, a programmer's procedure library which aids creating
	    Interpress files
	    	  
	7 - Fonts and metrics (object form), used with Dipress and compatible
	    with the 8044 Print Server.  These contain the TroffClassic and 
            TroffMath fonts in sizes 6-14, 16, 18, 20, 22, 24, 28, 30,
32,
	    and 36 points.  Special and math sysmbols are included.
	    	  
	8 - Program documentation, manual pages, and installation instructions
	
	
Distribution is by 1600bpi tape and floppy disks (fonts).  The software
should be compatible with most Vax 780 Unix 4.2 configurations, although
local sites may require some conditioning.  You will need some way to
get the resultant Interpress to an Interpress printer.  There are
several options: Berkeley's 4.3 XNS support, the Maryland-Cornell XNS
Ethernet software, the Xerox EVMS package, an RS232 port to an
intermediate Dandelion.  There may be other Xerox options in the future.


Recipients should be aware that the Interpress Toolkit is not a
supported Xerox product.  Hence the reason for providing source so
recipients can support themselves.


If you are interested in obtaining the Interpress Toolkit or simply want
more information, please contact the individual listed below.  Among
other items, we will need a copy of your Unix System V, Release 2
license, and a contact name, address(network and USMail), phone, etc.


Finally, the stuff looks beautiful.  Come and get it!!!!




Dennis Frahmann	
XNS Institute	
Xerox Corporation
2100 Geng Road
Palo Alto, California

415-496-6088
Frahmann.pa@Xerox.arpa


----- End of forwarded messages
