Date:    Thu, 22 Oct 87 16:34:19 cdt
>From:    rackow@anl-mcs.arpa (Gene Rackow)
Subject: Re: linpack and eispack libraries

Since there are bound several of you looking for software  for your
systems, I am sending the top level index on what is available from
netlib.  This is an automated software distribution system, NOT a real
person.
------------INDEX-----FOLLOWS-------------

===== general NETLIB index =====

Welcome to netlib, a system for distribution of mathematical software
by electronic mail.  This index is the reply you'll get to:
	mail netlib@anl-mcs.arpa
	send index.
To examine the full index for any library send a request of the form:
	send index from eispack.
To search for all software with certain keywords:
	find cubic spline.
To search for somebody in Gene Golub's address list:
	Who is Joan Doe?
displays entries containing "Joan" and "Doe".  (no spelling correction!)

Here are some addition forms a request may take...
send dgeco from linpack
  (Retrieves routine DGECO and all routines it calls from the LINPACK library.)
send only dgeco from linpack
  (Retrieves just DGECO and not subsidiary routines.)
send dgeco but not dgefa from linpack
  (Retrieves DGECO and subsidiaries, but excludes DGEFA and subsidiaries.)
send list of dgeco from linpack
  (Retrieves just the file names rather than the contents;
  this can be helpful when one already has an entire library and just
  wants to know what pieces are needed in a particular application.)
whois france
  (Retrieves all addresses of people in the database living in France.)

You may include several requests in a single piece of mail, but put
each on a separate line.

Send the requests to "netlib@anl-mcs.arpa"  even though replies appear to
be coming from  "netlibd@anl-mcs.arpa".  You'll be talking to a program,
so don't expect it to understand much English.  If your Unix system
doesn't talk directly to research, you might try forwarding through ihnp4
(AT&T Bell Labs in Chicago) or mcvax (Math Centrum in Amsterdam).  Someone
will be paying for long distance phone calls, so be reasonable!  Those
with access, possibly through some gateway, to the arpanet can use
netlib@anl-mcs.arpa (at Argonne National Lab) instead of research!netlib
(at Bell Labs in Murray Hill, New Jersey).

The default precision is double; to get single, prefix the library name
with "s".  However, if the library only comes in one precision, that's
what you will be sent.  To save space we remove sequence numbers and
maintain a central set of machine dependent constants. Otherwise the
codes, which are almost all in Fortran, are as received from the authors.
Bugs found in core libraries like eispack will receive prompt attention;
in general, we will forward comments (and annual lists of recipients) to
the code authors.  The "Caveat receptor" you see means: this code may not
be worth more than you are paying for it!

-------quick summary of contents---------
alliant - set of programs collected from Alliant users
apollo - set of programs collected from Apollo users
benchmark - various benchmark programs and a summary of timings
bihar - Bjorstad's biharmonic solver
bmp - Brent's multiple precision package
cheney-kincaid - Programs from the book by, Ward Cheney & David Kincaid
conformal - Schwarz-Christoffel codes by Trefethen; Bjorstad+Grosse
core - machine constants, blas
domino - communication and scheduling of multiple tasks; Univ. Maryland
eispack - matrix eigenvalues and vectors
elefunt - Cody and Waite's tests for elementary functions
errata - corrections to numerical books
fishpack - separable elliptic PDEs; Swarztrauber and Sweet
fitpack - Cline's splines under tension
fftpack - Swarztrauber's Fourier transforms
fmm - software from the book by Forsythe, Malcolm, and Moler
fn - Fullerton's special functions
go - "golden oldies"  gaussq, zeroin, lowess, ...
harwell - MA28 sparse linear system
hompack - nonlinear equations by homotopy method
itpack - iterative linear system solution by Young and Kincaid
lanczos - Cullum and Willoughby's Lanczos programs
laso - Scott's Lanczos program for eigenvalues of sparse matrices
linpack - gaussian elimination, QR, SVD  by Dongarra, Bunch, Moler, Stewart
lp - linear programming
machines - short descriptions of various computers
microscope - Alfeld and Harris' system for discontinuity checking
minpack - nonlinear equations and least squares by More, Garbow, Hillstrom
misc - everything else
ode - ordinary differential equations
odepack - ordinary differential equations from Hindmarsh
sodepack - ordinary differential equations from Hindmarsh(S.P.)
paranoia - Kahan's floating point test
pchip - hermite cubics  Fritsch+Carlson
polyhedron - there is a file for each solid.
pltmg - Bank's multigrid code;  too large for ordinary mail
port - the public subset of PORT library
pppack - subroutines from de Boor's Practical Guide to Splines
quadpack - univariate quadrature by Piessens, de Donker, Kahaner
siam - typesetting macros for SIAM journal format
slatec - machine constants and error handling package from the Slatec library
specfun - transportable special functions
toeplitz - linear systems in Toeplitz or circulant form by Garbow
toms - Collected Algorithms of the ACM
y12m - sparse linear system  (Aarhus)

[[ The last section, which described certain items in more detail, was
omitted for space reasons.  Those interested can get more information from
anl-mcs.arpa as per the instructions above.  I have been advised to NOT
place any omitted part of this message in the Sun-Spots archives, as the
list of available software changes "constantly."  --wnl ]]

