From sparkyfs!ames!pasteur!ucbvax!tut.cis.ohio-state.edu!purdue!spaf Wed Apr 18 08:09:23 PDT 1990

Original-from: mark@stargate.com (Mark Horton)
[Most recent change: 31 Mar 1990 by spaf@cs.purdue.edu (Gene Spafford)]

"news.announce.important" is a newsgroup for just what it says it is --
important announcements.  It is intended to be read by everyone on
Usenet, although nobody is forced to subscribe.  To post to
news.announce.important, send mail to the moderator at
"announce@stargate.com".  Some netnews implementations will
automatically mail to the moderator anything posted instead of
attempting to post it directly.  If the message is appropriate, it will
be posted by the moderator; if not, the moderator will suggest a more
appropriate place to post it or a better way to go about the same
goal.

Discussions in news.announce.important are explicitly forbidden, and
the volume of traffic will be kept low enough to keep people from
feeling a need to unsubscribe.  Usenet administrators for each site
should make a point of reading news.announce.important.

news.announce.newgroups exists for announcements of either the
creation  or the consideration of a new newsgroup.  All calls for
votes, calls for discussions, vote results, and creation notices of
all hierarchies should be posted to news.announce.newgroups.  Submissions
should be directed to news-announce-newgroups@turbo.bio.net (or to your
nearest backbone site).  Followups will be redirected to news.groups.

Some messages will be repeated every month, in order to reach all
newcomers.  These messages will be placed in news.announce.newusers,
which is also moderated.  This makes it safe for experienced users who
have already read these messages to unsubscribe to
news.announce.newusers without missing anything new in
news.announce.important.  If you aren't familiar with the netnews
guidelines in news.announce.newusers, please read them carefully.  Your
understanding of these rules will assure that you don't annoy the more
than 1 million members of the net community (estimated) by
unintentionally abusing the net, and will help you get more value from
the net.

The current policy is that news.announce.important submissions must be:

(a) short - preferably they should fit on one crt screen, including headers.
(b) important enough to at least have their header shown to everyone on the
    net.  The posting should be more of benefit to the net than to the poster.
(c) not posted to any other newsgroup - news.announce.important by itself is 
    supposed to be sufficient to reach everybody, and nobody should have to
    read an announcement more than once.
(d) signed - the author should be clearly evident.
(e) not commercial, political, or religious in nature.

	Mark Horton			     Gene Spafford
	news.announce.important moderator    news.announce.newusers moderator
	mark@stargate.com		     spaf@purdue.edu

 	Eliot Lear
 	news.announce.newgroups moderator
 	lear@turbo.bio.net

-- 
Gene Spafford
NSF/Purdue/U of Florida  Software Engineering Research Center,
Dept. of Computer Sciences, Purdue University, W. Lafayette IN 47907-2004
Internet:  spaf@cs.purdue.edu	uucp:	...!{decwrl,gatech,ucbvax}!purdue!spaf


