From sparkyfs!ames!apple!gem.mps.ohio-state.edu!tut.cis.ohio-state.edu!mailrus!purdue!spaf Wed Oct 18 12:11:12 PDT 1989

Original-from: Randall Atkinson <randall@uvaarpa.virginia.edu>
[Most recent change: 16 Oct 1989 by spaf@cs.purdue.edu (Gene Spafford)]

This is a periodic posting on how to get information about the
National Science Foundation (NSF) Internet.

The NSFNET Network Service Center (NNSC) makes current documentation
on the NSFNET available via a mail server and by anonymous ftp.

Because the contents of the documents are constantly being updated,
this posting only describes how to obtain a current copy rather than
providing the data directly.

1) Using anonymous FTP:
   host:             SH.CS.NET
   username:         anonymous
   password:         guest
   directory:        nsfnet		(i.e. type:  cd nsfnet )

The files "help-ftp", "help.1" and "nsfnet-help" will provide you with
information to get started.

2) Using the mail server: Send mail to the address shown below (either
   nnsc.nsf.net or sh.cs.net) and leave the "Subject;" line blank.
   The first line of the message body should contain a "Request:"
   line, followed by a "Topic:" line, as described below.  You do not
   need a "Subject:" line, but be sure your mailer puts out a valid
   "From:" line that the server can respond to!

To obtain general information on the CSNET INFO SERVER send the
following message to the mail-server "info-server@nnsc.nsf.net" or
"info-server@sh.cs.net":

	Request: Info
	Topic: Help

To obtain current contact information on the NSFNET and its affiliated
regional networks, send the following mail message to the mail-server:
"info-server@nnsc.nsf.net":

	Request: NSFNET
	Topic:   NNSC

To obtain information on how to connect to the Internet through the
NSFNET or an NSF-affiliated network, send the following mail message
to the mail-server "info-server@nnsc.nsf.net":

	Request: NSFNET
	Topic:   CONNECTING           

To obtain information on the documents currently available on the
NSFNET from the info-server, send the following mail message to the
mail server "info-server@nnsc.nsf.net":

	Request: NSFNET
	Topic:   NSFNET-HELP


If you need to contact the people at the NNSC directly, you can either
send mail or call them.  It would be a good idea to read the NSFNET
documents first though.

	Electronic Mail:  <nnsc@nnsc.nsf.net> 
        Telephone:        +1 (617) 873-3400.
-- 
Gene Spafford
NSF/Purdue/U of Florida  Software Engineering Research Center,
Dept. of Computer Sciences, Purdue University, W. Lafayette IN 47907-2004
Internet:  spaf@cs.purdue.edu	uucp:	...!{decwrl,gatech,ucbvax}!purdue!spaf


