
 






          DIGITAL

           Read Before Installing or Using VAX SCAN Version 1.2

           AA-FU79C-TE

          Whether you are a new or a continuing VAX SCAN (SCAN)
          customer, please take time to read the following infor-
          mation about your product.

          Installation Information

          SCAN Version 1.2 requires VMS Version 5.0 or higher.

          If you are installing SCAN Version 1.2 on a newly-
          licensed node or cluster, you must first register a
          License Product Authorization Key (License PAK) using
          the License Management Facility (LMF). The License PAK
          may be shipped along with the kit if you ordered the
          license and media together; otherwise, it is shipped
          separately to a location based on your license order.

          If you are installing SCAN Version 1.2 as an update on
          a node or cluster already licensed for this software,
          you must register the Service Update PAK (SUP) that
          is included in your Service Update Kit. If you already
          registered a License PAK or a SUP for this product on
          this node or cluster, you do not need to register the
          SUP.

          If you are installing an update of SCAN but lack a
          service contract, call your Digital representative for
          instructions on how to get a License PAK.

          See the VMS License Management Utility Manual for
          registration instructions.

          Previous versions of SCAN do not need to be installed
          before this version.

 


                                                           Page 2



          Release Notes Information

          The release notes for SCAN Version 1.2 contain new
          features, known problems, corrected errors, and re-
          strictions.

          You can read the release notes before installing SCAN
          by invoking VMSINSTAL and following the instructions
          that start the installation procedure. You can also
          read release notes following the installation of SCAN
          by typing:

                 $ HELP SCAN RELEASE_NOTES

          ©Digital Equipment Corporation. 1990. All rights re-
          served.

 


                                                           Page 3



          Contents of This Kit

          o  Indented Bill Report (BIL) and Bill of Materials
             (BOM)

             Please read the BIL and BOM enclosed in this kit and
             check to see that all items listed are actually in
             your kit. If your kit is damaged or any items are
             missing, call your Digital representative.

          o  Media

             If you ordered media, you will find the media and
             the VAX SCAN Installation Guide in this kit. Consult
             the VAX SCAN Installation Guide for information
             about installing SCAN on your system.

          o  Documentation

             Depending on your order, this kit may include copies
             of the following SCAN documentation:

                Guide to VAX SCAN

             Note that the VAX SCAN Installation Guide is in-
             cluded with the media.

          o  Software Product Description (SPD)

             The SPD provides an overview of the SCAN kit and its
             features.

          o  System Support Addendum (SSA)

             The SSA describes the technical environment in which
             the product is supported.

          o  Software Performance Report (SPR)

             Use this form to report any problems with SCAN,
             provided you have purchased warranty services.

 


                                                           Page 4



          A Final Note

          Digital prides itself on responding to customer needs.
          In order to continue serving you, we need your com-
          ments. Each manual contains preaddressed, postage-paid
          Reader's Comments forms at the back. If you find errors
          in a manual or want to make comments about it, please
          fill out one of these forms and send it to us.
